---
title: "Bullying of digital divide or not?"
date: 2013-04-04 23:00
tags: [hactivism, bullying, digital divide]
---



Abstract
========



The Internet is changing the average citizens as much as did other
technologies, for instance: telephone, TV, computers, mobile phones,
etc. The main province was to help the science, engineering, and
business. Many scholars, technologists, and social critics believe that
these changes and the Internet, in particular, are transforming economic
and social life [1]. In the past few years, the scholars have done many
researches to make a conclusion of difference in psychological and
social tend of the Internet to the citizens. Therefore, the term
“digital divide” is the gap that exists between those who have access to
electronic and Information Technology – Internet and those who do not
[2]. Whereby the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) set up could
result in an order of restricting the universal access to the Internet.
And representing a barrier to European development as an information,
knowledge and technology society. In other words, could lead to the
censorship of online content and control-restriction to the Internet’s
freedom, by intimidation the growth of electronic business, cultural
exchange, as well as digital creativity. In order to safe the Internet
and to provide shelter to digital divide culture we will have to take
actions.



Introduction
============



Enormous continuing and boosting usage of information and communication
technologies in an economic inequality between groups, broadly
construed, in terms of access and knowledge has created the term digital
divide. Additionally, divide inside countries also could refer to
individuals, households, business and geographical areas at different
socioeconomic and other demographic levels. On one hand the Internet is
changing the average citizens. As much as on the other hand the other
technologies, such as: telephone, TV, mobile phones, etc. The main idea
and purpose was to aid to and benefit the science, engineering, and
business. However, many scholars, technologists, and social critics
believe that these changes and the Internet, in particular, are
transforming economic and social life [1]. In the past, the scholars
have done many researches to make a conclusion of difference in
psychological and social tend of the Internet to the citizens.
Therefore, the term “digital divide” is the gap that exists between
those who have access to electronic and Information Technology –
Internet and those who do not [2]. Moreover, interesting is to point out
that to break the gap between the digital divide the scholars and
societies have created a new approach and technology for delivering
laptop per child. The project name is one laptop per Child and
significant fact is that as of 2011 there were over about 2.4 million XO
laptops delivered elsewhere [4]. Whereby the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade
Agreement (ACTA) could result in an order of restricting the universal
access to the Internet. And representing a barrier to European
development as an information, knowledge and technology society. In
other words, could lead to the censorship of online content and
control-restriction to the Internet’s freedom, by intimidation the
growth of electronic business, cultural exchange, as well as digital
creativity. Therefore, in this article we have introduced the readers
within the basic concept of digital divide. In addition we illustrate to
the readers a map of digital divide and example countries that have
stress out the digital divide. In contrast to digital divide we would
emphasis on the secret negotiations of ACTA agreement. Moreover, why we
should care about it, as well as in order to safe the Internet what kind
of actions we should take into consideration. At least we deliver to the
readers a conclusion.



Digital divide
==============



As we mentioned previously it is a term to determine the gap that exists
between those who have access to electronic and Information Technology –
Internet and those who do not [1]. Thereby in the next subsection we
introduce the readers within the concept and basic approach of
determining and criteria to define the digital divide. Least we also
provide the example country of digital divide.



Concept
-------



The main concept and criteria of digital divide is shown below [3]:

​1. Subjects of connectivity, or who connects: individuals,
organizations, enterprises, schools, hospitals, countries, etc.

​2. Characteristics of connectivity, or which attributes: demographic
and socio-economic variables, such as income, education, age, geographic
location, etc.

​3. Means of connectivity, or connectivity to what: fixed or mobile,
Internet or telephony, digital TV, etc.

​4. Intensity of connectivity, or how sophisticated the usage: mere
access, retrieval, interactivity, innovative contributions.

​5. Purpose of connectivity, or why individuals and their cohorts are
(not) connecting: reasons individuals are and are not online and uses of
the Internet and ICTs.



Example
-------



One of the best example of digital divide is a North Korea. The
broadband infrastructure is with optical fiber links up to 2.5Gbits/s
[5]. Additionally the Internet in North Korea is more or less is
recalled as “Intranet”, because of implementation of the Kwangmyong
network, in English “walled garden” [6]. The most significant fact was
the news have spread information that one of the most known torrent
sites has been moved to and relocated in North Korea, March 4 2013.
However this information was no correct. For more details please refer
to the following source [7]. Nevertheless the above are just simple
examples and in the Figure 1 we have illustrated you with the map of
digital divide.



ACTA: Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement
=========================================



Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement has been negotiated from 2007
through 2010 by the United states, the European Union, Switzerland,
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Singapore, Morocco, Japan and
South Korea. And it has been signed 8 of 11 agreements in October 2011.
Moreover, in October 2012 it was ratifies by Japan as well [8]. In
addition in Figure 2 we have illustrated you the map of ACTA countries
involved in drafting the convention.



Why should you care?
====================



When we look over the both maps we can come to conclusion that the
strongest countries that has less digital divide is the ones who has
drafted the convention of ACTA. So we should care, because of the
process how it was negotiated, indeed in secret. And the first text was
officially released in 2010. It has been roundup within eight
closed-doors negotiations. As well as the provisions, where the new IP
enforcement measures that raise potential concerns for users free
speech, privacy, ability to innovate and due process rights. And
finally, the enforcement it creates a new ad-hoc institution, an “ACTA
Committee”, constituting non-elected members to oversee ACTA
implementation and interpretation with no legal obligation to the
transparent in their proceedings [8].



Digital divide vs ACTA
======================



Anyhow, when we compare digital divide versus ACTA agreement we can see
that they overlap into one opposite directions. Such as explained in the
below table:



|Digital divide|ACTA|
|--- |--- |
|Access to ICT – Internet|Restriction to Internet|
|Freedom of speech|Censorship and control-restriction to freedom|
|Economy growth|Privacy|
|Culture exchange|N/A|
|Demoralizing: the economy, culture exchange, digital creativity||
|Digital creativity|N/A|



Conclusion
==========



In short summary is we have introduced the reader with the terminology
of what is digital divide coupled with examples. As well as the linked
connection between the two topics, digital divide versus ACTA agreement.
Therefore, we come to the conclusion is that indeed the ACTA convention
is bullying the digital divide.



Presentation
============

[Link](https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B1472nuKPMN5dW96RllUWWhoblE/preview).


Bibliography
============



[1]: Robert , K., Micheal, P., Vicki, L., Sara, K., Tridas , M., &
William , S., Internet Paradox, 1998 "Robert"



[2]: University of Minnesota Duluth, Web Design References: Glossary,
2011, [Link](https://www.victoriapoint.com/child\_technology.htm "Duluth")/



[3]: Martin Hilbert, The end justifies the definition: the manifold
outlooks on the digital divide and their practical usefulness for
policy-making, 2011 "Martin"



[4]: Worldwide | One Laptop per Child, 2013, [Link](https://laptop.org/map
"OLPC").



[5]: Jungbae An, Asia Internet History Projects, Sep 26, 2012, [Link]
(https://sites.google.com/site/internethistoryasia/country-region-information/north-korea-korea-democratic-peoples-republic-of
"Jungbae").



[6]: Andrew Jacobs, Google Chief UrgesNorth Korea to Embrace Web,
January 10, 2013 "Andrew"



[7]: Will, The Pirate Bay – North Korean hosting? No, it’s fake. (P2), 
05. March 2013, [Link](https://rdns.im/the-pirate
-bay-north-korean-hosting-no-its-fake-p2 "Will").




[8]: Carolina Rossini, Maira Sutton, Gwen Hinze, Anti-Counterfeiting
Trade Agreement, [Link](https://www.eff.org/issues/acta "Carolina").
