---
title: 'Major changes in warfare from antiquity to modern'
date: 2011-04-20 23:00
tags:
  [
    antiquity,
    art of war,
    changes warfare,
    cyber,
    cyber security,
    cyber warfare,
    history,
    internet,
    modern,
    networking,
    new war,
    network crime,
    security,
    war,
    war strategy,
  ]
---

# Analyse the major changes in warfare from antiquity to modern days. What are the most significant changes? What has remained unchanged?

Before we start the discussion about the major changes in warfare from
antiquity to present day we will precede with definition of War and its
significant and remained unchanged changes.

WAR in its literal meaning is fighting, for fighting alone is the
efficient principle in the manifold activity which, in a wide sense, is
called war. But fighting is a trial of strength of the moral and
physical forces by means of the latter. That the moral cannot be omitted
is evident of itself, for the condition of the mind has always the most
decisive influence on the forces employed in war (Graham, 2002).

Humanity has wedged war since antiquity through nowadays for million
causes, national and religious freedom, hatred, grudge, human rights,
liberating the enslaved etc. But one principle in war has always been
present from the depths of history till today, that is, wars are fought
for one purpose only, conquest of new territory from which economic
benefit is to be acquired for the soul use of the conqueror. Nowhere is
this more obvious than in the armed clashes of the beginning of the XXI
century, when under the pretext of human rights countries are being
robed from their natural resources and air-raids are killing those whom
should protect.

After we met with the theory of war and moral principles, it is time to
consider changes that have occurred between the ancient and modern
times. The military of ancient Egypt had introduced the new technologies
of metal, where they used bronze in the Middle Kingdom as main weapons
source, after it changed to iron in the New Kingdom and all during the
Late Dynastic Period. The Old Kingdom soldiers were equipped with a
great variety of weapons: shields, spears, cudgels, maces, daggers, bows
and arrows. The New Kingdom carried spears, battle axes, sickleswords
(MdC transliteration: xpS – khepesh or khopesh) and daggers. After the
bowmen, either on foot or on chariots, had softened up the enemy forces
with a shower of arrows (Dollinger, Dynasties XVIII to XX, 2004), the
infantry would rush in, breaking their ranks with hand weapons, maces
with wooden handles and stone – later metal – heads, battle axes,
hatchets, clubs, swords, sickleswords and daggers (Dollinger, Weapons,
2010).

Persian Army had only three wars, started from 490 BC until 478BC, the
army was very multicultural, were organizes in a decimal basis,
regiments, units and corps were grouped in tens, hundreds and thousands
(Drury, 2006). Officers were being responsible for ten men, another for
one hundred, one thousand and ten thousand. Heavily equipped with
weapons, which are: Thrusting Spear, palta, Akinakes , Xiphos, kopis,
bow etc (Wildfiregames, 2004).

Greece war, first nine years of the war consisted of both war in Troy
and war against the neighbouring regions, where destroyed Trojan
economy, allowed Greeks to getter a large amount of resources. The
Greeks won most of the battles, but they still could not break the walls
of Troy. The weapons that were used in those battles were bows and
arrows. As for strategies the famous Trojan horse, when Odysseus had a
perfect idea to build a big wooden horse where inside will be field with
the soldiers, which bring and invasion of Troy from the Greeks (Rita,
2010).

Army of Macedonia was the army of ancient Kingdom of Macedonia. It
considers a grate military force where there were reforms constructed
from the suggestion of King Philip II of Macedon and then his son
Alexander the Great. The introduction was in innovation of weapons and
new tactics, along with unique elements combination of military
elements, which bring a great intercontinental empire (Ellis, 1979).
Philip II had implemented in Macedonian phalanx army separation which
one group were on a mission to conquer a city and the other to conquer
castles. Each phalangite carried as his primary weapon a sarissa, but
the phalangite were not the focal point for the battle, they have used
other forces like: skirmishers, range troops, reserves of allied
hoplites, and artillery (Hellenica, 2005).

Rome in the wars had adapted weapons, armour and tactics of many enemies
they fought. Main weapons of Rome soldiers were Spanish sword – gladius,
it had two throwing spears, a large shield, body armour and a helmet.
They have also operated with the fire supported weapons, scorpios,
carroballistas, onagers. For a fest moves they started to build bridges,
so that the soldiers and the army can move faster. The army can march up
to 30 km a day. They were very evil, trained to stab a 5 cm deep wound,
after breaking the enemy, Romans tended to kill as many enemies as
possible and their cavalry pursued fleeing enemy.

After the Rome the medieval Europe warfare followed, which was the war
of legal and acceptable justification, nobility (knights) and the main
force on the battlefield was a heavy cavalry, where the law of the armed
conflict was born. The second largest empire in human history was the
Mongol empire. Mongols army had the capacity to move up to 150 km a day.
The weapons of the army consisted of massive fire (bow) speed and
manoeuvres.

Wars of the XVI Century were mostly protracted and indecisive. There was
insistency on building a fortress that was very difficult to conquer.
The most important improvement is the side of the weapons with adoption
of light guns and gunpowder. Gustavus Adolphus had guns in his army, he
had 1 gun per 83, but his enemies had 1 gun per 2000 men. The main thing
was to build and modify the fortresses for safety and hard to conquer.

World War I, sometimes described as ‘the war to end all wars’ (Creveld,
2000, p. 162), the strategies were based on first manoeuvre, and then
attrition. Forces and armaments were infantry, cavalry artillery, and
surface navy (initially); later – tanks, planes, submarines, chemical
weapons. The tactics were manoeuvre, frontal assaults, fortified
defence, artillery concentration (initially); the theoretical thinking:
seeking the way out of dead end, but not finding the means and ways. The
first known bombardment from the sky, using airplanes was by Bulgarian
army on the 16 of October 1912 at battle of Adrianople, where they were
captivated by the Turkish army. From the German newspaper “Geschichte
des Luftkriegs”, Militarverlag der DDR, Berlin, 1975, though the 1912
United Kingdom had 23 air planes, Russian – 99, German – 46, Italian –
22, Japan – 10 and USA – 3 air planes.

Second World War, where the technology and the concept of the war were
getting bigger, developed into a prolonged and extremely deadly struggle
of attrition. The Germans invented the rockets (vau1 and vau2).
Hiroshima and Nagasaki are the first and only events of deployments of
nuclear weapons in the world.

Second half of the 20th century, after the valuable technical point, the
arms forward for an outbreak of terrorism. That means that wars are no
longer big and global; the enemy is no longer in uniforman in force. And
size is no longer as great as it was the enemy can attack from anywhere.
Therefore, no longer wars head-do met the two armies, but running by
partisan / guerillas. Terrorism is an unconventional war de facto, i.e.
anti-insurgent operation, i.e. counter insurgency. Which create the kind
of combat actions that are performed nowadays in Afghanistan and Iraq.
In the 20th century, has one goal, redistribution of resources, i.e. to
get to justify the need to test before the war for democracy and human
rights. Macedonia is the country that is inclined towards terrorism, the
early 20th century, April 28 1903rd in Thessaloniki, the boatmen of
Thessaloniki have committed terrorist actions against the capital of
Western Europe and Turkey, i.e. have planted bombs in the Ottoman Bank
in Thessaloniki, the main post office, and planted a bomb in a ship
(Sotros, 2004 December).

As can read above the changes are very drastic. Humanity is fighting for
the different purpose; starting from the antiquity to nowadays, not only
in weapons that were used and presented, but in the strategies in a
tactics and theoretical thinking. Therefore, there are no more battles
wars, people are grouping and they can embattle from anywhere, which
gives a content of the terroristic activities of the wars. Today the
humanity and the scholars should getter together to work around of the
problems and solutions for the future, possibilities of internet (social
networks, VOIP, IM etc.), net generations1, thus today it is the main
source of grouping the population for massive protests or any other
actions, which can end-up to a war or scandal.

Consequently the technology and science are rising, the possibilities
and the changes in an aspect of wars will change. For instant is Russian
– Georgian conflict in 2008 as a result of territorial attack and in
sequence with it there was an cyber-attack in progress2; or powerful
internet worm repeatedly targeted five nuclear industrial facilities in
Iran and many others3. Therefore, nowadays this actions and concept of
warfare is different, no more uniforms, battles etc. Warfare’s are
getting new aspect and new ways to approach through the technology.

# Reference

Creveld, M. V. (2000). THE INTERWAR PERIOD. In M. v. Creveld, The Art of
War – War and Military Thought. London: Cassell.

Dollinger, A. (2004, November). Dynasties XVIII to XX. Retrieved from
Ancient Egyptian history, [Link](https://www.reshafim.org.il/ad/egypt/history18-20.htm#merneptah)

Dollinger, A. (2010, March). Weapons. Retrieved from Pharaonic Egypt, [link](https://www.reshafim.org.il/ad/egypt/weapons/index.html#rem4)

Drury, M. (2006, February). Battles of the Achaemenid Empire . Retrieved
from A History Resource by Mark Drury: [link](https://members.ozemail.com.au/~ancientpersia/batt_frm.html)

Ellis, J. R. (1979). Philip II and Macedonian Imperialism.

Graham, C. J. (2002). On The Theory Of War, Section: Branches of the Art
of War. Retrieved 2011, from Clausewitz, ON WAR: [link](https://www.clausewitz.com/readings/OnWar1873/BK2ch01.html)

Hellenica. (2005, 04). Macedonian phalanx. Retrieved from Hellenica: [link](https://www.mlahanas.de/Greeks/LX/MacedonianPhalanx.html)

Rita. (2010). The Trojan War. Retrieved from Stanford University: [link](https://www.stanford.edu/\~plomio/history.html\#anchor202941](/https://www.stanford.edu/~plomio/history.html)

Sotros, J. (2004 December). The Greek Speaking Anarchist and
Revolutionary Movement (1830–1940) Writings for a History. No God-No
Masters.

Wildfiregames. (2004, September). Persia: Arms of the Shah-an-Shah –
Persian Arms an. Retrieved from 0 A.D. :: Wildfire Games: [link](https://wildfiregames.com/0ad/page.php?p=1581)

[1] The Net Generation Brain by Don Tapscott (2009)

[2] [ZDnet.com/blog](https://zdnet.com/blog) – Coordinated Russia vs
Georgia cyber attack in progress

[3] [BBC.co.uk/technology](https://bbc.co.uk/technology) – Stuxnet virus
targets and spread revealed
