---
title: 'Internet and collectivistic cultures'
date: 2011-06-06 23:00
tags: [collectivistic, cultures, informatics, internet, network, online people, psyche, social]
---

# Internet and collectivistic cultures. How the Internet affects the psyche of the people from collectivistic cultures?

Nowadays everyone has a computer at home, work and even a carrying
device, example: laptop, notebook, mobile phones, IPod etc. All the
devices that are making our life easy in everyday tasks are able to
connect though the Internet. Which affects our psyche and people around.
It not only influences the thoughts, behavior and personality of
individual but it has lobby to the group of people that we socialize.
Thus, in other words the collectivistic culture beside.

Cultures by the membership are typically divided into two categories:
collectivist and individualist. Individualistic cultures, people are
expected to develop and display their individual personalities and to
choose their own affiliations, where in collectivist cultures, people
are defined and act mostly as members of a long-term group, such as the
family, a religious group, an age cohort, a town, or a profession, among
others (Deb, 2011).

Moreover, individualism pertains to societies in which ties are loose:
people are expected to look after themselves and their immediate family.
In addition, collectivism pertains to societies in which people are
integrated into strong, cohesive groups from birth onwards, protecting
them in exchange for unquestioned loyalty (Hall, Menno, & Steehouder,
2004). Cross-cultural studies have provided empirical evidence that the
individualism-collectivism dimension is the most important dimension for
pinpointing differences between cultures (Ting-Toomey & Gao, 1998).
Furthermore, both collectivist and individualist cultures have their
failings. People in individualist cultures are susceptible to
loneliness, and people in collectivist cultures can have a strong fear
of rejection (Psychology Wiki, 2011).

Specifically the emphasize of groups in family and work goals in
collectivist cultures, such as those of East Asia, parts of Latin
America and some countries from Europe, like: Greece and Portugal
(Psychology Wiki, 2011).

To illustrate the traits of collectivism is that each person is
encouraged to conform to society, to do what is best for the group and
do not openly express opinions or beliefs that go against it; group,
family or rights for the common good seen as more important than the
rights of individuals; where rules promote stability, order, obedience;
fitting in or conforming to group or society is required; where
distinctions made between in-group and out-group and working with others
and cooperating is the norm. Refusal to cooperate and wanting to be
independent or stand out is seen as shameful. Everyone must rely on
others for support. Therefore, stereotype of a ‘good person’ in
collectivist cultures is trustworthy, honest, generous, and sensitive,
all characteristics that are helpful to people working in groups
(Psychology Wiki, 2011).

At the present day, users of the online social networks are more
collectivistic, because of the apparent benefits to networked
interaction. Given this rise in popularity, a significant amount of
prior work has examined the social behavior and attitudes of the users
that engage in Internet network. Proponents argue that community
building technology is useful because it improves knowledge interaction
among users, enhancing interpersonal relationships. Specifically as
weblogs, playing online or through Internet network games, wikis such as
Wikipedia, social networking such as Facebook, Myspace, Hi5, etc. and
micro blogging tools such as Twitter, in particular, have attracted
attention ( Dayne, Sigi, & Hart, 2009).

For instance, I do not know all of my friends in my social networks
Facebook, last.fm, twitter, myspace, etc. Yet I do like to build a
community where I can share my other activities, such as sharing my new
photography that I have taken in Estonia or somewhere else, share the
event when I am going to perform a music show in clubs in Tartu or
Tallinn. Sharing links of my new blog posts or my site update.
Therefore, still I have seen this people face to face, or at least I
have had a face to face conversation with most of them. I do rely on
their support to show in events that I am performing, or get a feedback
on the photography that I have posted recently. All the above, creates
my own society group network though Internet my own virtual world
family, where relationship permits classification in the in-group, which
relied on collectivistic culture.

On the other hand, when collectivists meet another person, the first
thought they are likely to have is, “What is my relationship with that
person?” If the relationship permits classification in the in-group,
they are likely to behave very positively – cooperating, supporting,
going out of their way to help. In contrast, if the other person is
classified as an out-group member, they are likely to be indifferent or
even hostile. Such sharp differentiation of in-group and out-group is
not found among individualists. Collectivists use action verbs, rather
than state verbs, because they prefer to use context in their
communications. Sometime even show a generosity rule when exchanging
with in-group members, where their acceptance of paternalism and to
emphasize the importance of the nurturance of the leader. And for
further more information see (Individualism and Collectivism, 2001, p.
35).

Therefore, the Internet drastically changes the psyche in-group and
out-group communication, relationship, supporting, cooperation, etc. in
human culture. Nevertheless, Internet has influence on psyche in
collectivist culture behaviors but affects the individualist. Nowadays
people are communicating through the many sources available on Internet
and develop new relationships, groups and community where they can share
and feel positive, classified, into larger groups.

# Reference

Dayne, F., Sigi, G., & Hart, D. (2009, November 9). Individualist and
collectivist factors affecting online repurchase intentions. Retrieved
from School of Accounting and Business Information Systems, The
Australian. [Link](https://www.emeraldinsight.com/1066-2243.htm).

Deb. (2011, March 27). Geert Hofstede. Retrieved from wikimedia.org. [Link](https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Geert_Hofstede).

Hall, M., Menno, d., & Steehouder, M. (2004, November 1). Cultural
differences and usability evaluation: individualistic and collectivistic
participants compared. Retrieved fromHighBeam Research. [Link](https://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-126157549.html)

Psychology Wiki. (2011). Collectivist and individualist cultures.
Retrieved from Collectivist and individualist cultures – Psychology
[Wiki](https://psychology.wikia.com/wiki/Collectivist_and_individualist_cultures#Traits_of_Collectivism).

Ting-Toomey, S., & Gao, G. (1998). Communicating Effectively with the
Chinese. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

TRIANDIS, H. C. (2001). Individualism and Collectivism. In D. Matsumoto,
The Handbook of CULTURE & PSYCHOLOGY (p. 35). Oxford: Oxfrod University
Press.
