---
title: "Cyber Security Group in South Eastern Europe"
date: 2013-01-03 00:00
tags: [cyber security, NGO, group, south eastern europe, macedonia, balkan]
---



Recently we have heard and read about the importance of cybersecurity
around the
[US](https://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Politics/2013/0213/Why-Obama-s-executive-order-on-cybersecurity-doesn-t-satisfy-most-experts)
and
[EU](https://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/en/news/eu-cybersecurity-plan-protect-open-internet-and-online-freedom-and-opportunity-cyber-security).
Firstly Obama administration get order intended to bolster
cybersecurity, where the move comes after the White House tried, and
indeed failed to get tough cybersecurity legislation through Congresses
last year. Secondly, EU released the cybersecurity plan to protect open
Internet and online freedom and opportunity – Cyber Security strategy
and Proposal for a Directive. Frankly, where are the countries of South
Eastern Europe (SEE) in here, such as the ones that are not in EU, for
instance: Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia, Albania and Kosovo?



Therefore, my plan, as a founder of
[Cybersecurity.mk](https://cybersecurity.mk) would like to make a
proposal of creating and teaming a group which will meet once a month to
talk over another the importance of such as beneficial and in fact
essential cybersecurity issues, as well as to exchange knowledge.
Sharing is caring. Additionally, in every meeting we will merge and
invite important people either over the remote or in the place speakers
to give, share and offer us a knowledge what we should do in a near
future. How we could fix and raise not only the awareness, but also the
importance of cybersecurity in South Eastern Europe (Macedonia, Serbia,
Montenegro, Bosnia, Albania, Kosovo, Croatia, Slovenia, Bulgaria,
Romania and Greece).



For this proposal to be success we would need a help from NGO’s, NPO’s
and any other institutes from the region and elsewhere. In addition I
would like to ask hackers, crackers, ethical and non-ethical, designers,
freelancers and many other to help us with the following problems:

- Name of the group. I will be more than happy if you could give as
proposals on the comment section for the name of the group. Let us
contribute together in this matter and we will be all God Fathers for
the group which will help us in improving and boosting awareness level
in cyber and IT security in our region.

- Logo. We would like to hear from any of you to design the logo of
South Eastern Europe – Cyber Security Group. Please feel free to give us
a link of the design in the comment section (below) and then we will
select together the best proposal.

- Sponsorship for the speakers to invite them to meet with us in face to
face, either is NGO, NPO, financial, telecommunication, insurance
institutes.

- Proposal of speakers, list for the next meetings and place, indeed.



If you have any further great ideas or proposals please do not hesitate
to share them with us. We would be more than happy to take them in
consideration. Nevertheless, I really hope that forming the group, such
as Google Developer Group etc. will help on one hand. And on the other
hand, will aid to meet one another, to discuss and share our knowledge.
To learn from the best people and scholars in cybersecurity.



Overall, more frequently in SEE region we have seen targets to attackers
on the Internet. How do we handle this matter of facts and how we deal
against? How we protect our online space? And indeed why we should take
actions? Those are just a start-up questions that everyone of us should
be able to answer them. Therefore, we hope that you all will contributes
in the above problem that we face and will HELP us in creating this
group in SEE region.



