---
title: 'Digital divide or not?'
date: 2011-06-19 23:00
tags:
  [
    digital divide,
    internet,
    net generation,
    network,
    network generation,
    online,
    online generations,
    psychological,
  ]
---

# Digital divide or not?

Is there a psychological “digital divide”? Are people who often use the
Internet psychologically different from those who do not and in what
ways?

The Internet is changing the average citizens as much as did other
technologies, for instance: telephone, TV, computers, mobile phones etc.
The mainly province was to help the science, engineering, and business.
Many scholars, technologists, and social critics believe that these
changes and the Internet, in particular, are transforming economic and
social life (Robert , Micheal, Vicki, Sara, Tridas , & William , 1998).
In the past few years, the scholars have done many researches to make a
conclusion of difference in psychological and social tend of the
Internet to the citizens. Therefore, the term “digital divide” is the
gap that exists between those who have access to electronic and
Information Technology – Internet and those who do not (University of
Minnesota Duluth, 2011).

People use home computers and the Internet in many different ways and
for many purposes, including entertainment, education, information
retrieval, and communication. If people use the Internet mainly for
communication with others through e-mail, distribution lists, multiuser
dungeons, chats, and many other instant or voice messenger applications,
they might do so to augment traditional technologies of social contact,
expanding their number of friends and reducing the difficulty of
coordinating interaction with them. On the other hand, these
applications disproportionately reduce the costs of communication with
geographically distant acquaintances and strangers; as a result, a
smaller proportion of people’s total social contacts might be with
family and close friends. Yet other applications on the Internet,
particularly the World Wide Web, provide asocial entertainment that
could compete with social contact as a way for people to spend their
time (Robert et al., 1998).

On the one hand, since the primary use of the Internet is communication,
some people might speculate that the Internet will have positive social
consequences in people’s everyday lives because it increases the
frequency and quality of interpersonal communications among people.
People with easy access to others would feel better connected and more
strongly supported by others, leading to happiness and engagement in
families, organizations, communities, and society more generally
(Nikolovska, 2007).

But, on the other hand, the ease of electronic communication may lead to
weaker social ties, because people have less reason to leave their homes
and actually interact face to face with other people. The Internet
allows people to more easily work from their home, to form and sustain
friendships and even romantic attachments from their home, to bank from
their home, to vote and engage in political and social issue based
discussions with others (from home) (Nikolovska, 2007).

Even with watching television and using a home computer and the Internet
generally imply physical inactivity and limited face-to-face social
interaction. Some studies, including our own, have indicated that using
a home computer and the Internet can lead to increased skills and
confidence with computers (Lundmark, Kiesler, Kraut, Scherlis, &
Mukhopadhyay, 1998). However, when people use these technologies
intensively for learning new software, playing computer games, or
retrieving electronic information, they consume time and may spend more
time alone (Vitalari, Venkatesh, & Gronhaug, 1985). Some cross-sectional
research suggests that home computing may be displacing television
watching itself (Danko, W. D. & MacLachlan, J. M, 1983), (Kohut, 1994)
as well as reducing leisure time with the family (Vitalari et al.,
1985).

In this variety of ways, Internet communications can potentially
displace face-to-face communications. This point is important because
psychologists in many researches have described and proved such face to
face and telephone connections as being of higher quality, when viewed
in terms of their contribution to satisfaction and
well-being(Nikolovska, 2007).

Question that rise is while our culture heralds the Internet as a
technological wonder; there are suggestions that Internet use has a
negative influence on individuals and their social skills. A recent
study conducted by Carnegie Mellon University concludes that Internet
use leads to small but statistically significant increases in misery and
loneliness and a decline in overall psychological
well-being(Association, American Psychological, 1998). The appropriately
named HomeNetproject studied a sample of 169 people in Pittsburg during
their first year or two online. Data showed that as people in this
sample used the Internet more, they reported keeping up with fewer
friends. They also reported spending less time talking with their
families, experiencing more daily stress, and feeling more lonely and
depressed. These results occurred even though interpersonal
communication was their most important reason for using the Internet.

Katz and Aspden’s national survey (1997) is one of the few empirical
studies that have compared the social participation of Internet users
with nonusers. Controlling statistically for education, race, and other
demographic variables, these researchers found no differences between
Internet users’ and nonusers’ memberships in religious, leisure, and
community organizations or in the amount of time users and nonusers
reported spending communicating with family and friends. From these
data, Katz and Aspden concluded that “[f]ar from creating a nation of
strangers, the Internet is creating a nation richer in friendships and
social relationships” (p. 86)(Robert et al., 1998).

Furthermore, the percentage of usage of the technology nowadays
drastically enhanced. Such as the state/country statistics of
information society reports during pass few years.

Parallel between two countries with a similarity of population number:
Estonia and Macedonia

Estonia since 2000 had 366,600 connected citizens though Internet.
However, in 2010 the statistic report’s the rapidly changes with the
number of 969,700 connections (Miniwatts Marketing Group., 2010). Yet
the statistic in Macedonia shows since 2000 the users that were
connected are 30,000, where in 2010 the number swiftly has change,
1,057,400 users in the country were connected though Internet. Thus, the
statistic shows that 75,1% of citizens in Estonia has access to
Internet, analogous to Macedonia 51% of population of the country in
final report of 2010 (Miniwatts Marketing Group, 2010).

As a result, from the statistic we can see that, most of the population
nowadays has a computer, laptop, or device in their pocket that can
connect on Internet. Despite the alarm, research indicates most children
are doing fine. Computers are certainly intriguing and captivating, and
the Internet is most assuredly alluring with its research and
communicative capacities. But overall, technology can be considered a
positive enhancement to growth(Affonso, 1999). This feature is
eloquently affirmed by author Don Tapscott (Tapscott, 1999):

“… when kids are online, they’re reading, thinking, analyzing,
criticizing and authenticating – composing their thoughts. Kids use
computers for activities that go hand-in-hand with our understanding of
what constitutes a traditional childhood. They use the technology to
play, learn, communicate and form relationships as children always have.
Development is enhanced in an interactive world.”

From the above the influence of the Internet has caused a change in the
way we communicate, study, shop, etc. The most famous for the ability to
spread information, to communicate from a distance with a web camera,
etc. it is the Internet. But this communication revolution changed the
pure nature of interpersonal and group processes. We should be able to
see the difference between the qualities of face-to-face communication
that influence the impact of communication on people and their social
interaction. Moreover, should we be able to predict the probable
influence of any new communication technology. Nevertheless, the
researchers show that people sooner or later convert their cyber
contacts into more traditional face-to-face, as most of us do. People
use the Internet, in other words to help them achieve their real-life
goals. And rather than technology’s changing people’s social and
psychological reality, in other words, people change their use of
technology to facilitate their creation of a desired social reality.

# Reference

Affonso, B. (1999, December). Is the Internet Affecting the Social
Skills of Our Children? Retrieved from Sierra Source Web Design. [link](https://www.sierrasource.com/cep612/internet.html)

Association, American Psychological. (1998). Internet paradox — a social
technology that reduces social involvement and psychological well-being?
American Psychologist,53, 1017-1031.

Danko, W. D., & MacLachlan, J. M. (1983). Research to accelerate the
diffusion of a new invention. Journal of Advertising Research,
23(3),39-43.

Kohut, A. (1994). The role of technology in American life. Los Angeles:
Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press.

Lundmark, V., Kiesler, S., Kraut, R., Scherlis, W., & Mukhopadhyay, T.
(1998). How the strong survive: Patterns and significance of competence.
Unpublished manuscript.

Miniwatts Marketing Group. (2010). Macedonia Internet Usage and
Telecommunications.

Retrieved from Internet Usage and Telecommunications. [link](https://www.internetworldstats.com/eu/mk.htm)

Miniwatts Marketing Group. (2010). Internet Usage Stats and Market
Report – Estonia.

Retrieved from Internet World Statistic. [link](https://www.internetworldstats.com/eu/ee.htm)

Nikolovska, M. (2007, April). The Influence Of The Internet On People’s
Social And Psychological Realities. Retrieved from EzineArticles.com. [link](https://ezinearticles.com/?The-Influence-Of-The-Internet-On-Peoples-Social-And-Psychological-Realities&id=524319)

Robert , K., Micheal, P., Vicki, L., Sara, K., Tridas , M., & William ,
S. (1998). Internet

Paradox. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Tapscott, D. (1999). The kids are alright: technology doesn’t make them
‘little criminals’. Retrieved from Victoria Point Multimedia. [link](https://www.victoriapoint.com/child_technology.htm)

University of Minnesota Duluth. (2011, 04 04). Web Design References:
Glossary. Retrieved from Information Technology Systems & Services. [link](https://www.d.umn.edu/itss/support/Training/Online/webdesign/glossary/d.html)

Vitalari, N., Venkatesh, A., & Gronhaug, K. (1985). Computing in the
home: Shifts in the time allocation patterns of households.
Communications of the ACM, 28(5), 512-522.
