---
title: 'Honeypot document'
date: 2012-02-16 00:00
tags: [honeypot document, cyber security, honeypot]
---

# INTRODUCTION

The main goal of laboratory report is to identify possible leaked/stolen
information, documents from our system without recognising that attacker
had an access. Thus access of the document will inform us immediately
with the information of the burglar. The report should highlight the
following aspects:

- Constructed an document as non malicious code, for instance honey
  document that will help us to track from where, who, information
  about the system, etc. is using our document.
- Detail description of process, how did we build the document and the
  idea behind the tracking system.
- Description of needed infrastructure that is tracking the document.

The laboratory report is created by a team of 7 members. Where each
member had own task to accomplish. Moreover, to be more contingent the
unknown person has gain access to our computer/laptop. Thereby he is
looking for interesting name of file, folder, etc. that most likely will
have a content of interesting data, information for his purpose. After
he downloaded file/folder from our system the intruder will open this
file in his system assuming that contains very important
personal/corporate information. However, by opening this file/folder,
document it will send us immediately leaked information about his system
to our server and additionally an e-mail. This process and procedures
that are behind the honeypot document, or with other words trap set to
detect, deflect, or in some manner counteract attempts at unauthorized
use of information systems [1] is described in following sections.
Furthermore, the coding of the honeypot document is done in HTML file
with additional java script queries, where detail information and
construction are displayed in Honeypot section. Meanwhile in Appendix
section we provide the code of the honeypot document and additional what
is the leaked/collected information of the intruder system, with other
word, content illustration of mail and server logs.

Finally the conclusion made of the laboratory report will be concise in
summary section.

# HONEYPOT IDEA

HTML file We can name the file online banking or etc. cause it is html
and it is more convincing way that the attacker will assume that this is
an not only a online banking link but yet an the stored cookies and
other leaked information. The honeypot file has inline javascript that
will collect as much information as it can from the users browser, make
it into a JSON object and create a request to our server using that
information. The request will return an image, so nothing will be
broken, however on our server we decode the information and send
ourselves an alert email, that someone has accessed that document and
where the accessing came from. There is also an image embedded that
requests it from our server- these requests are logged and we see the IP
address of the opener. This is as a backup in case the user doesn’t
allow javascript to execute.

**How we lure an attacker into trap**

To discover the identity of attacker and get information, she/he has to
open html file. Besides setting up honeypot from technical point of
view, we have to make document attractive. On our system all the
documents will be protected by (different) passwords. We can have same
password for files with same extensions (for example, for PDFs or for MS
Word documents). In html file, we store these passwords. The name of
html document should be corresponding (“file passwords” for example).
Attacker will need additional time to crack the passwords, so we are
offering easy, quick way to get over additional obstacles. Actually, in
html file passwords should be correct not no make the attacker
suspicious. Attacker may be suspicious why we stored this kind of
information in html file, but it can be explained with the following
reasons: a) to open html (with notepad or browser for example) is
quicker than opening .pdf and .doc (by Adobe Reader and MS Word
respectively) b) html has different extension (.html) that PDF or MS
Word documents, so it has different icon in GUI. If you put a lot of
different files in a folder, html is much easier to find with a glance
among PDFs and DOCs.

**What information we get**

The honeypot is scripted to give us the following information about the
attacker: first of all IP address. Time, hen the attacker accessed the
honeypot file. Except that, we also get information about user agent,
OS, language and other details about attacker’s system. For this
concrete task that should be enough. The script is configurable to get
some additional information too. As our plan is to simply gather
information on our infiltrator, it is essential to avoid being malicious
with our code. It will not alter target’s system or bypass any
restrictions of it. The solution will not announce itself and will be as
stealthy as possible.

The information is sent to mail. For the example of sent e-mail, please
refer to Appendix 2.

# HONEYPOT INFRASTRUCTURE

We need a Web server running PHP. The PHP script will collect the JSON
data received

from the attacker, format it nicely and send via email to people who
will process it. If

JavaScript is not enabled on the attacker’s side we rely on the fact
that a picture is

accessed from the honeypot html file. The server has to serve this image
and the request

for it of course appears in the web server access logs. This information
again is processed by the same PHP script mentioned above and forwarded
to analysts. Another alternative way to inform security personnel about
this honeypot image being accessed is the Simple Event Corelator (SEC)
written by Risto Vaarandi [2]. This software is freely available under
GPL license. We could write a rule for SEC that would monitor the web
server access log file for the specific image file request and send an
email with the IP address from which the image was accessed. The rule
that is used for SEC can be found in Appendix 3. The content we are
looking for in the log file may look like this:

\`\`\`192.168.1.34 - - [07/Dec/2011:19:16:07 +0200] "GET /honey.png
HTTP/1.1" 200 1932\`\`\`

# SUMMARY

Nowadays the most common vector in unauthorized access into the system
is followed by stealing important data, either is from personal computer
or corporate network. Therefore, solution of implementing a trap for
detecting, and deflecting the attacker of collecting valuable
information is important. This laboratory report consists solution for
future detection, by creating an honeypot document that will help us to
collect data from the attacker. The document it self it is not an
malicious code, likewise does not corrupt or infect the attacker system.
Solution provided above is designed with an simple infrastructure which
help us to identify identity of attacker in different operation system.

Moreover, the honeypot document provides us an information of what is
the attacker or user of this document operation system, which browser he
is using, what plugins are installed in the browser and additional the
time of accessing the file and attached IP address. Thereby, by
identifying the above information will guide us in further steps. For
instance by identifying his IP address we can find his location, ISP,
etc. However, is this above provided information enough? The answer to
the question is simple, indeed it is, cause we don’t need more. The idea
in this laboratory is not to find or assail the attacker, but it is just
to identify, and realize that someone had an unauthorized access to the
system and to distinguish his identity. Consequently, from the above we
can conclude that we rather gather the information from the attacker
then to attack him back.

# APPENDICES

Appendix 1 is the HTML and Java script code presented and in addition in
Appendix 2 we present the e-mail received after the attacker has open
the document. SEC are described in Appendix 3.

# Appendix 1

HTML + Java script code presented below:

## Appendix 2

What we receive via email:

## Appendix 3

SEC rule file for web server log monitoring (will work only for IPv4).
Alerts the root user via email and suppresses alerts for one hours for
the same IP address

# Bibliography

[1] Wikipedia, Honeypot (computing), 4 December 2011, [Link](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honeypot_(computing)>).

[2] Risto Vaarandi, SEC man page, NA, [Link](https://simple-evcorr.sourceforge.net/man.html](/web/20120310213401/https://simple-evcorr.sourceforge.net/man.html).

The above post is written by: Predrag Tasevski, Robert Pallas, Kuuno
Pärnoja, Mikheil Basilaia, Karl Düüna, Roman Stepanenko and Heliand
Dema.
