---
title: 'ICSAP – Interactive Cyber Security Awareness Program'
date: 2012-12-06 00:00
tags: [awareness, cyber security, human factor, program, socio-technical, training]
---

# Abstract

Currently, humans coupled with the socio-technical aspect can be either
the strongest or the weakest link in any information security system,
and the key in security lies in delivering awareness training through
short and effective online videos, whereby the participator can gain
knowledge on security. Our aim, therefore, is to develop innovative
solutions to deliver an interactive cyber security awareness program,
where the main goal is to enhance information on security awareness and
knowledge in organizations, schools, nations, homes etc. The syllabus
consists of a systematic approach divided into three sections. The
introduction is a basic level course (BASIC), with the aim of delivering
an elementary curriculum in physical security, computer and mobile;
network and Internet security to everyone. It is made up of several
units with interactive training videos that last less than 10 minutes
each. The second course (ADVANCE) is the advanced program which
demonstrates the attacking phases, different attacking methods and the
countermeasures that highlight the anatomy of Advance Persistence
Threats (APT). This curriculum is intended for administrators, help desk
personnel, information technology professionals among others. The last
course (MANAGEMENT) is intended for managers, where we annotate two
decision-making processes with their cycle loop. Moreover, after each
unit there is a questionnaire, which measures the knowledge of each
participant, and compares it to the base-line survey carried out during
the registration process. As a result, it represents the participant’s
awareness level and knowledge, and will assist in further actions if
necessary. By implementing this program in private and public
organizations, governments, schools and universities will lead to the
improvement of security in the everyday use of computers, mobile phones,
online banking, social networking\_ both at home and in the workplace.
The present study addresses and implements the IT security issue. We
will apply the results by carrying out the syllabus, with the latest
improvements, in universities and private organizations. Consequently by
applying these further improvements to the syllabus, it will meet the
needs of the cyber security field.

**Keywords:** cyber security, human factor, socio-technical, awareness,
program

# Presentation

[Link](https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B1472nuKPMN5ZHlocUFFc2o2UWM/preview).
