---
title: 'Influence of Virtual life'
date: 2011-08-06 23:00
tags: [online, online community, second life, social network, virtual life]
---

# Authors: Predrag Tasevski, Marco Gavazzi and Lasse Hyyrynen

# Introduction

Any computer user who is engaged in a virtual world has a virtual life.
Virtual life is a catchall term used to describe the involvement and
presence of an individual in any chosen virtual world or simulated
digital environment. Virtual world is a genre of online community that
often takes the form of a computer-based simulated environment, through
which users can interact with one another and use and create objects.
And virtual community is a social network of individuals who interact
through specific media, potentially crossing geographical and political
boundaries in order to pursue mutual interests or goals. Therefore, we
have choose this problem as an issue of the general drastically grow of
the population of having access to the computers and Internet.

There are many online service available to demonstrate an virtual life
environment for different purpose, for [example](https://secondlife.com/), [link](https://ict-virtuallife.eu/](https://www.ict-virtuallife.eu/blog/?cat=8),
etc. Nowadays the scholars and researchers are organizing workshops and
developing projects, to understand the meaning of second life and to
perceive the meaning of virtual life in different aggregate of
surroundings.

The interesting topics about the second life – virtual life are that it
can be focus in many different aspects, example: virtual distance
education, on users – questionnaire on user needs, it can be compression
of virtual life with an second life, online shopping, medical purpose,
social networking, cross cultural study, modern world with GPS cell
phones, etc.

According to the literature, people tend to construct their virtual
identity in a different way from the real one. Therefore, it is
extremely important to study both the aspects of the everyday life and
the presentation of the virtual self (Nagy, Péter, 2010).

In summary, we are going to give an expectations and the comparison in
past few years and nowadays, what have change, what is expecting in the
future, etc. In addition we are devoting and explaining what are the
best methods in our opinion to be done to study the problem in a deep
allegory. But on the other hand we are openhanded in impression what
kind of problems could rise do to analyze this problem in the field of
Internet psychology.

# Expectations

First of all, a general increase of people using the Internet (maybe not
so strong as some years ago but still really dynamic), and a decreasing
of the average age of the users (Internet is really used among very
young people, thanks to all the social network really in fashion at the
present time).

There are other data that we expect from our research project,
especially about the using of the Internet divided in the continents.

Of course in Asia there are more users than in any other place, but we
have to consider that this one is the most populated continent between
all the others…

We can in this way expect the statistics of the world Internet
penetration rate:

Reading these two graphics we can compare the quantity of people using
the Internet in general and the penetration grade of the Internet in the
last years, according to different continents.

So we can verify that even in continents with very few users of the Net
there has been a very strong increase of the users in the last period
(Oceania is the last continent about numbers of users of the Internet
with around 21 millions, but with a penetration rate of about 61% in
last years, the second one between all the other continents).

In Europe this phenomenon of the spreading of the usage of the Internet
is really strong, as we can see for other data (really superior than in
the rest of the world). A last statistic that we expect from our
research, this time about the usage of Internet by young people: the
case is only local (United States) but it’s significant of the
increasing of the usage of Internet in last years. About 80% of children
between the ages of 0 and 5 who use the Internet in the United States do
so on at least a weekly basis. The report, which was assembled using
data from seven recent studies, indicates that young children are
increasingly consuming all types of digital media, in many cases
consuming more than one type at once.

A 2010 Nielsen study suggests that 36% of children between the ages of 2
and 11 uses the computer system and the Internet massively. Altogether,
children between the ages of 8 and 10 spend about 5.5 hours each day
using computers.

# Methods

First we will start with the method of analyzing influences between
virtual and real life and afterwords analyzing the influences between
virtual life can be done in a very wide variety of ways.

Questionnaires can be used to analyze users own believes on the
influences. For example a questionnaire can be used to study how the
user thinks his Internet activity has affected his social behavior in
the real world. Questionnaires can be conducted via social networks or
separate Internet applications, which make them an easy way to gather
information.

In the modern world with GPS cell phones, the analysis can also be made
objectively with brute data analysis. People could be studied by
gathering information from their social network pages and by using some
GPS tracking software on their mobile phones. This way we can gather
both the amount of time used in social networks and the amount of time
spend in the real world. If the GPS tracking can be done in a large
enough scale we can also see how many people a person meets during a
certain time period.

Third kind of a study could be a cross cultural study, where behaviors
between different cultures are compared to see how virtual life changes
the behavior. This doesn’t only mean spatial comparison, but also the
temporal comparison of Estonian culture in the year 1950 compared to 2010. This of course means that we must have a good knowledge of the
cultures before we make decisions on which changes are due to the second
life.

The cultural study would be good to conduct on a culture, where the
Internet will be introduced in the following years. This way we can see
the changes in 10 years.

# Problems that could occur

There are obviously many problems that must be well thought before
continuing with the study. In the questionnaire choosing the group,
questions and the way to analyze the results will have a fairly big
impact on the conclusions. Because the group is huge and diverge (all
the Internet users in the world), it will be quite hard to predict
anything.

Problems with following people objectively is of course quite illegal in
almost all of the modern countries with Internet. This will effect the
group that can be followed, since we only get people who wants to be
followed. Because we only get a special subset of people to study, we
only can guarantee that the results we get applies to the people who
likes to be studied.

Cross-cultural studies are hard to compare, since there is quite a huge
number of variables that effect in human behavior, and it is usually
close to impossible to determine accurately which behavioral differences
would be due to virtual life.

# Conclusion

The aim of our research project is mainly to try to reconsider a topic
that can seem really banal (second life? every research about the
Internet starts from second life!), but that we consider to be of ground
importance. It’s really important to keep monitored every short period
of time these data; that’s the only way to have a clear vision of the
topic to start further and more specific researches.

Consequently, from all the above we can make a conclusion that it is
possible to have done this research through many methods and still there
are going it be rise many problems. The problems can be mainly in
cross-culture, and the social differences between one group and the
other.

# Reference

Nagy, Péter (2010). Second Life, Second Choice? The effects of virtual
identity on consumer behavior. Retrieved from A conceptual framework,
Symposium for Young Researchers, Budapest, Hungari. [link](https://kgk.uni-obuda.hu/fikusz)

Internet world stats – usage and population statistics (2011). [link](https://www.internetworldstats.com/)
