---
title: "Information society and information warfare"
date: 2011-01-06 00:00
tags: [art of war, cyber crime, cyber war, history, Information, information warfare, network crime, society, warfare]
---



Meaning of victory in conflict in the information age. What has changed? What has remained unchanged? How information society and information warfare influences achieving the victory?
=======================================================================================================================================================================================



The rapid development of information technology (IT) over the past three
decades has led to many changes for example in military and defense
circles, social society, and economy in the information age. Nowadays
many scholars are in a process of developing theories and concept of
affective influence of victory in conflicts in the information age. In
this essay the main discussions are about the interchanges of victory in
conflict in the information age in aspect of divers’ view of anatomy of
information warfare; different views and approaches to information
warfare/operation in a couple of countries, which will end with
conclusion.



Today, much of the enthusiasm for the information-led revolution in
military affairs (RMA) or military transformation (as the newly
preferred term of art), specifically in Gulf War model of decisive
action appeared to demonstrate how total victory could be achieved
reliably in the future (Gray, April 2002, p. 30). RMA’s are immoderate,
abrupt prose changes in paths of warfare waged and they are brought by
development of technology and social changes. Therefore, in the end of
Cold War development has formed the basis of RMA, where the present is
usually defined as a transition to network-based/network-centric warfare
(NCW), for instance: stealth technology, precision-guided munitions
(PGM), computer technologies (Internet), etc. In addition the examples
of implementing RMA are Afghanistan (2001) and Iraq (2003) war, where
they started as traditional conflicts and transformed into insurgencies.



According to Carl von Clausewitz’s book On War, “War is an act of
violence whose object is to compel the enemy to do our will”. Yet, 2000
years earlier Sun Tzu, established a benchmark for a mastery of war “To
subdue the enemy without fighting is the acme of skill.” Underlying
those statements is an appreciation of the psychology of war. Indeed, by
combining the statements Commander Randall G. Bowdish made a dissent
statement of information age psychological operations “to compel the
enemy to do our will without fighting. (Bowdish, December1998 – February
1999)”. Another view made by other commander remark “In war there can be
no substitute for victory.” General Douglas MacArthur, 1951 (Gray, April
2002).



Nevertheless, the history of 20th century sufficesto remind us that
there are many ways to win a war, but still various ways are not
equivalent, and final victory does not necessarily belong to the side
that dictates the conditions of peace. Which lends to viewpoint of how
should we determine whether the victory is at hand, and define the time
end of major battlefield to see if the post-war payoffs have been
archived. Yet, there are moral considerations, archiving peace, e.g.
humanitarian intervention, fair treatment may accelerate cessation of
hostilities and surrender and law of armed conflict sets strict rules of
behaviours by using weapon systems, treatment of prisoners, etc.  

Therefore, in the past, before World War I, there are fewer clear
victories, of 311 wars from 1480 to 1970; only 137 wars were concluded
with a peace treaty. Specifically, after World War II, almost 50% of the
wars have been followed by a renewed fighting after initial cessation of
hostilities. But, since the end of Cold War acceptability of armed force
have continued and even escalated, particularly in open political
systems. Such as, globalization is a strong impediment waging a total
war. Therefore, today in the era of democracy, wars are hard to start,
but even harder to bring to an end.



Nowadays, the modern wars/information warfare consists on different
vector of victory. Today is unacceptable to have extreme violence, such
as losing small wars. Thus, victory today has changed drastically and
vector consists of six aspects: informational(e.g. intelligence in
internal and external sources, protection of information system with
manipulation or disruption of its enemy), military (e.g. military
security, action itself, enemy’s attack against the action and defense
for the action against enemy’s attack), political (e.g. political
stability, national interests, etc.) , economical (e.g. rebuilding of
economical infrastructure, integration into the regional and global
economy, trading of shares), social (e.g. ethnic, religious,
nationalistic, social society violence to resolve in internal and
external conflicts) and diplomatic (e.g. involving reliable approval and
tangible support for the war outcome from the victory domestic public,
foreign allies, international organizations and other observers)
(Ahvenainen, January 2000).



As a consequence these changes mean decreased importance of nation
states, increased importance of virtual reality, network organizations
and dominance of economy, information, technical intelligence and other
information and network based organizations (Ahvenainen, January 2000).



Another change in information age is terrorism. Information age
terrorism may take on three distinct forms: conventional terrorism,
technoterrorism, and cyberterrorism. The purpose weapons of the
cyberterrorist are not designed to kill people or break physical
objects. Rather, they exist exclusively to destroy or modify computer
data. The weapons and the targets are the electrons moving within
cyberspace. While it is possible to attack this data without any human
interfaces, the human is usually the weakest link in a computer system
(Littleton, December 1996).



To illustrate historically, there have been observed four waves of
modern terrorism:1880-1920: anarchist terrorism (began in Russia),
1920-1960: terrorism in support of national liberation (IRA, Irgun,
PLO), 1960-1980: neo-leftist terrorism (Action Directe, BrigateRosso,
Rote ArmeeFraktion) and 1980-present: religious terrorism (Hamas,
al-Qaeda, Islamic Jihad) (Cronin & James , 2004).



On the other hand of information terrorism there is modern insurgency,
likelihood counterinsurgency. Modern insurgency is supported by a wide
variety of non-state actors from abroad and it consists of many
foreign/local society fighters in addition to local population. They
still need support of the local population, but as it does not aspire
for straight military victory. Nowadays insurgency, could be weaker than
previous generations (hence the use of terrorism) as there are no
powerful states directly behind it and they disseminate information
about its activities all over the world, which does not rely only on
official mass-media, it also uses of effectively Internet (Hammes & T.,
July-August 2006).



Analogous to, strategic asymmetry in modern counterinsurgency (CI) and
modern insurgency (I) are respectful goals. Like, (CI) victory means
building up a stable state less than (I) getting rid of victorious
state/coalition. As to win, (CI) needs “hearts and minds” of the
majority of population, rather than (I) needs support of sufficient part
of population. For instance, (CI) must deal successfully with tactical
military activities to provide security, where (I) need to be successful
only to a certain extent – inflicted casualties attack the will of
(CI’s) strategic leadership. More (CI) must win, less (I) must
persuade(CI) that winning is impossible. Due to winning state building
takes time, whereas persuading could happen fast.  

Therefore, evolution of insurgency in the information age is into
persuasion/communication campaign which naturally increased resort to
terrorism and relying on external support of non-state actors. Opposite
to strategic victory of counterinsurgent arises from series of tactical
victories and a state build-up, whereas only one tactical victory of
insurgent might in the worst case lead to a strategic victory –
withdrawal of the coalition.  

Nowadays, we can see seven different species of information warfare:
command and control warfare, C2W (or C4I – command, control,
communications, computers, and intelligence (Joint Publication 1-02, 8
November 2010)); intelligence-based warfare, IBW; electronic warfare,
EW; psychological warfare, PSYOP; hacker warfare, HW; economical
information warfare, ECOIW and netwar / cyberwar (Lubicki, 3 August
1995). Therefore, different types of IW, first add the power of
conventional warfare, which create new means of victory and defeat.
Next, more important are possibilities to change the entity of warfare
in a way that tanks, airplanes and HF -radios changed the warfare
between the world wars. Today the best aspect of IW is the American
doctrine in military adaptation and Information Operations (IO)
(Ahvenainen, January 2000), which is going to be discussed in the
following lines, comparing with view aspects of IW in China.



Different countries, different approaches in process of implementation
of IW, US, China and Russia, are intense examples. First US views in IO
are to complementing traditional military means and allowing influencing
enemy decision-making. More or less, Chinese views in IW are tool to
compensate for their military inferiority and accelerate their economic
development, which could enable the country to expert control over many
developments in the world. Then US has series of offensive IO’s, but has
been in trouble in accommodating to modern information society where the
enemy can attack directly the will of state national leadership.
Opposite, Chinese military in IW are focused on the person of enemy
commander and strives to alter his decisions and perceptions.



Consequently, US strength in the IO fields is in its technical
capabilities and weakness in seeking excessive control and understanding
various cultures and capabilities to include EW , CNO and tradition
PSYOPS, MILDEC , OPSEC . Where Chinese are attempting to mobilize its
population in accordance with the concept of people’s war in
capabilities in development in CNA, especially CNR , CND, which bring
worries of the danger of globalization (Pufeng, Spring 1995), (Anderson,
The first edition 2001), (Bowdish, December1998 – February 1999).  

Nerveless, the IW for Soviet Union and subsequently to Russia its means
ranging from controlling own society to demoralizing the enemy,
gathering intelligence and attacking the enemy through CNO. There taking
step further, where we had dealing with enemy with technology in US and
thinking in China, Russia is trying to manipulate the biological parts
of the enemy dealing with information (Liaropoulos, 2007).



As a result, the information age is creating or will create new means of
influence and new ends to influence. This process will create new means
of victory, new troops and added complexity. It is important, that these
new things will add new possibilities between war and peace and it will
increase possibilities to act before war and to avoid conventional
warfare (Ahvenainen, January 2000).



Finally, to achieve victory in information warfare, the central issue is
the control of information. Such as, Chinese approaches to use old
tactics and strategies to win victory in information warfare and Russia
is educating talented people and facilities to produce high quality
cyber warriors for state, private business and crime.



Reference
=========



Ahvenainen, S. (January 2000). ABOUT INFORMATION WARFARE. Finland:
Finnish Defence Forces, Lt.Col (Ret.).



Anderson, R. (The first edition 2001). Chapter16: Electronic and
Information Warfare. In R. Anderson, Security Engineering (p.
Chapter16). Cambridge: University of Camrbidge.



(Apr-Jun 1999). Journal of the Signapore armed forces.



Bowdish, R. G. (December1998 – February 1999). Information-Age
Psychological Operations. USA: US Navy.



Cronin, A., & James , M. (2004). Four Waves of Modern Terrorism.
Washington DC: Georgetown University Press: Rapoport.



DJIM. (Volume 4 – Spring 2009). Information Warfare — Doing Battle in
the 21st Century.
[djim.management.dal.ca](https://djim.management.dal.ca/)



Gray, C. S. (April 2002). DEFINING AND ACHIEVING DECISIVE VICTORY. USA:
Strategic Studies Institute.



Hammes, C., & T., X. (July-August 2006). Countering Evolved Insurgent
Networks. Military Review.



