---
title: 'First time Lenovo, hopefully for sure the last time'
date: 2013-10-21 23:00
tags: [lenovo, laptop, thinkpad, ubuntu]
---

I have got the [Lenovo Thinkpad Edge
E330](https://shop.lenovo.com/gb/en/laptops/thinkpad/edge-series/e330/)
one year ago. It was my first time experience with Lenovo. Previous
experience was with HP, and in fact I’m sure that I do not want to get
into it, as well as even to remember it or even to mention it. Anyhow,
coming back to the Thinkpad, at the first I just fall in love with the
keyboard as well as with the red mouse pad, also the solid structure and
the black color. Like they always say laptop for the underground/hacking
and indeed nerd people, as me.

Unfortunately, recent event or I might say events made me to write this
post, where usually I do not write this kind of content to share.
However, let me start from the begging to least event as follows.

First event occurred after four months where suddenly after watching the
movie the left or the right speaker stopped working. I was not aware of
this occurrence so I have continue to use the laptop, for music and for
any thing of course. But after one or to week the laptop was mute. Just
one note that I was only using [Ubuntu 12.04
LTS](https://releases.ubuntu.com/precise/), Linux, so I thought that it
might happened while I was updating and upgrading the kernel and the
drivers. After one week of troubleshooting, with forums, ubuntu ask,
kernel FAQ, finally we came to conclusion in IRC channel of ubuntu that
this might be the hardware problem. So I took the laptop to the support
service where I actually both it. The support was very friendly and of
course they did understand my problem. They have even try in front of
me, but with no sound at all. Meanwhile, while I was there we also
spotted smudge on the corner of the display. Ok, perfect, I’m already
there so let us fix it two in one. Due to the missing parts of display
the support guy just manage to order only the speakers, and he told me
to give him a call in one month to order the display as well. Usually
Lenovo alloweds one part per month to be changed, nevertheless better
something than nothing. After the speakers fixing issue the engineer
told me that the plastic where the speakers where it was kind of malted.
Surprisingly, I did not know what to say, I was listening music and loud
as anyone else. Nevertheless, this problem was fixed.

After one month I have called him to order display and in 7 days hi send
me an email to bring the laptop to change it. Perfect, lets do it!
Finally I have got the new display installed without any spots. So I
asked the guy how it did happened, was there kind of damage or something
else. His response was very clear during the assembling of the parts,
putting them in order they most probably scratch the display on the
back. Uhhh, this can happened, of course, but why to me. Either I just
have bad luck or I’m just not too good with technology. Last but not
least, some how after few months the spot appeared again, almost on the
same place. Uffffff…, not again…

Final problem just happened today, while I was at school writing
homework and of course working on the research paper, the battery went
out. So I plug the laptop into the desk at school, but somehow does not
charge at all. Yes, so my charger is death or maybe the entire laptop
too. Just one note, before you start wandering how I did write this
post, simple it is on the blackberry tablet. Thank you blackberry for
such a great present. Coming back, as some of you currently know I’m
outside of where I purchased the laptop, so this adds plus effort to
find a support or service for Lenovo in France. Being honest, the entire
site of Lenovo is with really bed information, and also does not helps
you how you should proceed with this problem. First thing that came into
my mind is to check if I still have the warranty. After struggling of
typing the information through smart phone, I see that the warranty of
the laptop just expired one day ago. Nice, uhuuu, I’m so bloody lucky.
In the few days, I will just need to get use to the tablet, as well as
smart phone.

In conclusion, I just want to emphasis why Lenovo will be my first and
of course my last laptop, or even any hardware from Lenovo, because of
the above occurrence. Also, like we usually say, the giant manufactures
are always producing products to expire after the warranty. So indeed,
Lenovo you are doing a hell of a good job. Hopefully if you continuous
in this path you will end of hell of a unsatisfied customers like me.

Sorry Lenovo for writing such a bed words about your production, but
please put yourself into my shoes and position. I’m hell out
frustruated. Of course I’m sick of buying laptop every year.
Nevertheless, from know one I should start searching for right one, to
fall in love. If you have any suggestions please share them below.
