---
title: 'Network Security Toolkit'
date: 2012-12-25 00:00
tags: [cyber security, network security, toolkits, security]
---

# Introduction

A toolkit is a collection of tools, where for our motives is an assembly
of tools to eavesdropper and scan network security for the possible
exploitations. Moreover, these tools are designed from security
researchers and experts, for the purpose of network administrator and
security analysts to be able in everyday work to conduct potential
exploitations, to watch and to analyse the network. Additionally,
network monitoring is a term to describe the system that is constantly
monitoring computer network for being slow or failing peripherals, and
it notifies the network administrator either via email, SMS or alarms in
case of interruption of service. Equally to network monitoring, the
security analysts are responsible for designing and monitoring security
systems. As well as, to coordinating policies of security measures to
protect information in computer files from unauthorized or accidental
change, distribution or disclosure. It is therefore in this article we
will introduce the readers with the basic concept and essential part of
network security toolkits. As well as, already possible network security
tools to help them to conduct network security monitoring and analysing.
Lastly, we will give the readers with recommendation and conclusion.

# Network Security Toolkit

In this section we will take a look at a few essential components of the
toolkits, and their main goals and purposes. When we assemble the
toolkit, you might want to consider having at least one of the following
components included:

- **Packet Sniffer**. It is an either software or hardware piece that
  can intercept and log traffic passing over the network or part over the
  network. As the data flaws across the network, the sniffer is capturing
  each packets and if needed it will decode the packets raw, by displaying
  the values of various fields in the packet, and it will analyse the
  content according the RFC or other specifications. This is especially
  useful when dealing with security threats that produce abnormal packets
  or enormous traffic. As well as, it will help to diagnose failed network
  hardware.

- **Port Scanner**. It is software developed to probe server or host for
  open ports. This kind of tools are essentially in every day work for
  administrators to verify security policies of their network and to find
  unwanted running services, before the attackers. They are very useful in
  fact to figure and detect unauthorized systems and services. The
  technique that most of the tools that are using are based upon finger
  print matching technology.

- **Intrusion Detection System (IDS)**. It is a device
  or application that monitors network or systems activities for malicious
  hustle or policy violations and, of course produces reports to a
  management staff. Moreover, typically they record information related to
  observed events, let know the security administrators of observed
  events, and respond to the detected threats by attempting to prevent it
  from fulfil.

- **Log Analysers**. Are dealing with large volume of
  computer generated log messages, known as event logs, audit records,
  etc. Furthermore, it deals as well as log analysis which can be in a
  real-time and in bulk after storage, also log search and last procedure
  reporting. In mace cases most of the system administrators groan of
  examining through log files for precious of information.

- **Vulnerability Scanners**. It is an application designed
  to assess computers, application, computer systems and networks for
  their weaknesses. There different types of vulnerability scanners by
  distinguished from one another by a focusing to particular targets. The
  functionality varies among the different types of vulnerability
  scanners. They share common purpose of enumerating the vulnerabilities
  present in one or more targets. Also they enable you to seek out if your
  network or system has known vulnerabilities for patching.

- **Web Scanners**. It is a program which communicates with
  web applications through the web front-end to be able to show potential
  security vulnerabilities in the web application and their architectural
  weaknesses. Unlike the source code scanners, web application scanners
  they donâ€™t have access to the source code, and that is why they detect
  vulnerability by performing real attacks to the web application.

- **Password Crackers**. It is a process of either recovering
  or gaining access, password from data that has been stored in or
  transmitted by a computer or network. The approach is to repeatedly
  trying to guess the password. As well as, they allow you to quickly scan
  a host computer for accounts with weak password, one or the other by
  disabling them or force their owners to carry out and create stronger
  passwords.

Note that the above list is just an understandable part that you should
have in mind to consider had them into your everyday network security
toolkit box. In the next paragraph we will give the readers with the
available tools that are essential for the network security toolkits.

# Available Network Security Tool

Most of the tools listed below are open source solutions and they cover
one or more components from the above list. Additionally, for further
detail information please refer to the following [link](https://sectools.org/).

For instance for password cracking you might use the [John the
Ripper](https://www.openwall.com/john/) and
[RainbowCrack](https://project-rainbowcrack.com/) tools. Where for packet
sniffing there is a big variety of tools, but most commonly known are:
[Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/), [Ntop](https://www.ntop.org/),
[Tcpdump](https://www.tcpdump.org/) and many others. Moreover, to be able
to conduct vulnerability scanning consider the following tools, such as,
[Nessus](https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus),
[OpenVAS](https://www.openvas.org/),
[Nipper](https://www.titania-security.com), etc. In addition to the
scanners, for web application the most known is a[Burp
Suite](https://www.portswigger.net/burp/), then
[Websecurify](https://www.websecurify.com/),
[Nikto](https://cirt.net/nikto2) and few more. For port scan you might
want to consider [Nmap](https://nmap.org/). And finally for log analyser
to come in handy is [Swatch](https://sourceforge.net/projects/swatch/),
as well as for Intrusion Detection System handy tool is
[Snort](https://www.snort.org/).

# Conclusion

The above list of tools and the list of components will help and aim to
the reader for what to have and to look at. Same as there are few of the
many pieces of software put together from the dedicated security experts
to advance the state of art of network security toolkit, such as,
[Network Security
Toolkit](https://networksecuritytoolkit.org/nst/index.html) (NST)
bootable CD/DVD, [BackTrack](https://www.backtrack-linux.org/) and many
others.
