---
title: 'What is Risk Assessment?'
date: 2014-03-22 00:00
tags: [risk assessment, risk management, cyber risk, IT risk]
---

This post intention is to deliver to the readers an introduction to risk
assessment. Please bear in mind, that the author is conducting research
in this field, therefore in few months there will be more articles about
cyber-risk and so forth. Nevertheless, hope that the below will guide
you, and will give you better understanding for risk assessment.

Internet has become as essential part of risks in every organization.
Despite all the malicious code and alerts, we use it increasingly.
Therefore, risk assessment is a critical part of risk management in each
organization that deals within the IT infrastructure. Traditionally, the
focus has been related to natural hazards. However, risk assessment has
received much attention in the past decade. Subsequently it is a primary
task in enterprises and it is widely considered a key reason for
improving an organization’s IT performance.

In content to risk assessment as a part of risk management, additionally
we have the criminality and unlawful exploitations of the Internet.
Accordingly, [1] provides a partial approach to cyber-risk as a vital
feature of risk assessment. Consequently, there are three different
approaches that the studies have tended to focus on, such as, economical
approach [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8], cyber-risk coupled with risk management
and insurance [1, 9, 10], and game theory [11, 6, 7]. Moreover, we
define risk when the chosen action or activity will lead to
organizational loss. In addition, risk is the likelihood that something
wrong or/and bad will happen and it will cause harm to the
organizational information asset, or lead to the entire loss of the
asset. In risk, vulnerability is a weakness that could be used to
jeopardize or cause harm. Threat is anything (artificial or act of
nature) that has the potential to cause harm to organizational
information assets [11].

Also, the chance that a threat will use a vulnerability to cause damage
creates a risk for the organizations. When a threat uses vulnerability
to inflict damage, it has an impact. In the context of information
security, the impact is a loss of availability, integrity and
confidentiality. Similarly, to information security, in cyber security
the additional impacts are: non-repudiation, authentication, information
systems importance and criticality according to state Critical
Information Infrastructure / Critical Infrastructure. Other possible
losses can occur too, such as loss of income and loss of life, etc. It
is very important to point out that it is impossible to find all risks,
nor is it possible to drop all risks [12].

To sum, above we have provide the readers with basic concept and merely
approaches to risk assessment. Additionally for further readings, we
suggest you to do follow-up from the references below.

# Reference

[1]: T. Maillart and D. Sornette, “Heavy-tailed distribution of
cyber-risks” (2013).

[2]: Artur Rot, “IT Risk Assessment: Quantitative and Qualitative
Approach”, WCECS 2008 (2008).

[3]: Yan Bai, Zhong Yao, Hong Li, and Yong-Qiang Zhang, “Risk Assessment
for Information Security Based on Fuzzy Membership Matrix”, NCIS 2012
(2012).

[4]: Thomas M. Chen, “Information Security and Risk Management”,
Encyclopedia of Multimedia Technology and Networking (2009).

[5]: FARIBORZ FARAHMAND, SHAMKANT B. NAVATHE, GUNTER P. SHARP and PHILIP
H. ENSLOW, “A Management Perspective on Risk of Security Threats to
Information Systems”, Information Technology and Management (2005),
203-225.

[6]: Arben Mullai, “Risk Management System – Risk Assessment Frameworks
and Techniques”, DaGoB (2006).

[7]: NORMAN FERRIER and C. EMDAD HAQUE, “Hazards Risk Assessment
Methodology for Emergency Managers: A Standardized Framework for
Application”, Natural Hazards 28 (2003).

[8]: Emmanuelle Zambon, Sandro Etalle, Roel J. Wieringa, Pieter Hartel,
“Model-based qualitative risk assessment for availability of IT
infrastructures” (22 June 2010).

[9]: Fanny Lalonde Levesque, Jude Nsiempba, Jose M. Fernandez, Sonia
Chiasson and Anil Somayaji, “A Clinical Study of Risk Factors Related to
Malware Infections”, CCS 13 (2013).

[10]: Narayana Santhanam and Venkat Anantharam, “Agnostic insurability
of model classes” (2013).

[11]: Spagnoletti, Paolo; Resca A., “The duality of Information Security
Management: fighting against predictable and unpredictable threats”,
Journal of Information System Security (2008), 46-6.

[12]: Predrag Tasevski, “Interactive Cyber Security Awareness Program”,
LAP Lambert Academic Publishing (2012), 22-26.
