---
title: "What is wireless network security?"
date: 2012-08-10 23:00
tags: [wireless, security, cyber security, gms, wlan, wpan, threats, wifi]
---


Introduction
============



The first wireless telecommunications was established in early 20th
century, within successful transmitted radio signal across Atlantic
Ocean. And it was known as the first wireless communication across the
ocean. However, in this time likewise the computers were not widespread,
the inventors and developers of wireless have not had in mind that this
technology will be so spread and to carry out a security into the
wireless telecommunications. Whereabouts, nowadays computers are
worldwide spread in every home, in every office, and especially when we
are on the road or when we travel. We used them in fact as our main
devices to be able to complete and conduct our everyday tasks throughout
wireless technology. Such as, to share picture, media, use different
instant chatting application, video and voice calls – skype, etc.
Additionally, wireless technologies have been very popular recently, in
home and business users. Due to the fact that it is costs-effective,
useful, no mess cables into the build or house, it is easy to set up,
and it provides a great mobility.



Owing to the expansibility, mobility and usability, the wireless
technology and telecommunication could be at great risk. Therefore, in
this article we will introduce the readers within the different
categories coverage range wireless networks. Then we will go over the
wireless standards, as well as the most commonly known security threats.
Last but not least, we will introduce the readers with the basic
wireless security measures. And finally we will summarise the article
with the conclusion.



Wireless Network
================



Wireless network it is used to transport data between devices and among
devices. They are often categorized into three groups based on the
coverage range, such as: Wireless Wide Area Networks (WWAN), WLANs, and
Wireless Personal Area Networks (WPAN). Where WWAN it involves wide
coverage area of technologies, such as, Global System for Mobile
Communication (GSM), 2G cellular, and many other. In the other hand,
WLAN unlike the traditional wired network does not need cables, it
connects computers and other parts to the network using an access point
device, and it has coverage areas of up to 300 feet. In contrast the
WLAN, the WPAN is representing the wireless personal area network
technologies such as Bluetooth and Infra-Red. Please note that these
technologies receive and send information using electromagnetic waves.



Wireless Standards
==================



Wireless technologies comply with a variety of standards and offer
different levels of security features. The advantages of standards are
to encourage mass production, as well as to allow products from
different vendors to interoperate. For this article we have limited the
discussion to the most commonly known IEEE 802.11 and the Bluetooth
standard.



Moreover, the two standards are described below:



-   IEEE 802.11 standard. Are first developed in 1997. It is designed to
    support medium range, higher data rate for applications, for
    instance, Ethernet networks and to mobile address and portable
    stations. In addition, WLAN standards are designed for 1 Mbps to 2
    Mbps wireless transmissions. Hence advanced support it was followed
    in 1999 by 802.11a, then by 802.11b standard, where the later on the
    security vulnerabilities of the standard have been exposed. Another
    standard still in draft has been developed – 802.11g, yet the
    massive WLAN productions now are based on the 802.11b standard.
-   Bluetooth standard. It is an ad-hoc network standard. Are designed
    owing to interconnect different types of devices between each
    other’s, such as computers, mobile phones, PDAs, etc. Their
    applications include wireless synchronization, e-mail, internet
    access using personal computer connections, hands free headsets and
    car kits, and many others.



Wireless Security Threats
=========================



As the effect of that the wireless networks are widely spread and they
are available around us it represents the potential treats in wireless
network. Also the security threats could be made from errors and to
personal privacy. However, the most commonly known concerns in wireless
security are devices theft, vulnerabilities, denial of service attacks,
malicious code and hackers, services theft and foreign and industrial
espionage. Moreover, authorized and unauthorized access of the wireless
device may commit fraud and theft. As well as, malicious hackers may
break into a network without authorizations, by exploiting the
vulnerability, by brute forcing the password or other security
vulnerability flow to do hard or to gain personal information or needs.
In addition, malicious hackers or crackers are usually people from
outside of an organization or agency. Conversely, users within
organization and agency are a threat as well. Furthermore, they could
gain access to the wireless access point by eavesdropping on wireless
device communication. Additionally, malicious code includes such as,
worms, Trojan horses, viruses, or other unwanted code, application that
are designed for purpose to damage files or bring down the system or the
entire network. Service theft is when for instance an unauthorized user
gains access to the network and in worst case customer data or network
resources. And last, foreign and industrial espionage covers gathering
data from corporation or intelligence information from government.
Especially in wireless network espionage is very simple because the
transmission of data is across radio waves.



Wireless Security Measures
==========================



From the previous paragraph we can conclude that actually wireless
network it has different approaches and methods of threats. Therefore,
in this section we will concentrate of how to apply security measures in
our wireless network, either are for a personal or organizational usage.



First step is to create a Security Policy. It defines what it means to
be secure, as well as includes restrictions on wireless LAN functions,
traffic, flow, and access. Second is to configure for Secured Network
Access, by implementing and configuring setup password protection, also
to physically secure the WLAN and to secure the WLAN. It can be secured
from intruders by wireless authentication, such as: WEP (Wired
Equivalency Privacy) – which can be hacked very easily); WPA and WPA2
(Wi-Fi Protected Access) – are more secure alternatives, where unlike
the WEP and WPA, WPA uses the AES (Advance Encryption Standard) and it
supports two modes of authentication – WPA2-PSK (Pre-shared key) and
WPA2-Enterprise (EAP/RADIUS) mode. Thirdly by controlling wireless
visibility by Service Set Identifier (SSID), this is visible and real
name of the wireless network. Last but not least, by securing the
network with virtual segmentation, called Virtual LAN. Finally, we
recommend on-going security maintenance and continue education.



Conclusion
==========



Today wireless networks are helping and definitely providing the
opportunity to the organizations, individuals and business to cut costs,
to increase the productivity and mobility. By following the above
recommended security measures the everyday work will in fact continue
without any interference. The key to keep up and creating a security
wireless network is on-going running business and organization.



